## Introduction

Recommender systems have gained a lot of prominence over the years and are a core tool for businesses to showcase their products and services. From the consumer’s perspective, these systems help to reduce their search costs and cognitive load by presenting a set of pertinent choices that the consumer may be most interested in buying. It has been well-established that context and social connections significantly influence a consumers’ preferences and their decision-making. We make the observation that many a time, consumers simultaneously interact with multiple businesses (for eg. during Thanksgiving/Black Friday sales) when browsing/purchasing for products and services, and hence can be thought of as a part of a huge heterogeneous network in which users(U), businesses/brands(B), product categories(PC) and products(P) are disparate nodes or entities. We believe that a recommender system created on the basis of such a heterogeneous network that captures structural and semantic correlations between the different types of nodes will be meaningful in terms of making the most relevant and accurate recommendations.

We propose a novel method for making recommendations to users in a heterogeneous network by leveraging some recent advancements in network embedding in computer science field. We ask the question that given just user-item interaction data, how can we build a recommender engine in the absence of explicit ratings data, and other data like user and item attributes. Our data comes from a popular online gaming platform that hosts multiplayer online role-playing and strategy games. The data is for a 30-day period, of which we use 20-days as our training period and we create 3 test periods of 1,2 and 4 days each. 

## Methodology

Our method is briefly described as follows:

We firstly start by creating a heterogeneous network of users(U), games played(G) and items purchased within games(I). To create our network, we utilize a meta-path scheme UGIGU which basically signifies the relationship that users(U) play games(G) purchasing/using the item(I). Once we have a network file in place, we leverage a skip-gram neural network architecture to learn the weights associated with the input layer which comprises of a comprehensive list of users, games and items in our heterogeneous network. These weights are what we call as embeddings; essentially we obtain the latent vector representations for users(U), games(G) and items(I) as 1x128 row vectors. These vectors effectively capture the network semantic and structural relationships between nodes. We can think of the original heterogeneous network being converted to a lower dimensional recommender space in real time. Once we have the vector representations, we pass on these to a recommender funnel, where we evaluate the cosine similarity scores for all the users. We randomly select 10,000 users from our test period and fetch their vector representations. The item recommendations are made on getting the items bought by topmost 5,10 and 15 similar users in the first 2, 4 and 10-days of the testing period. We report our results using the Accuracy metric by computing the number of users who ended up purchasing at least one item from our recommended set of items.

We compare our model against a number of other traditional and state-of-the-art recommender systems – Group based (item recommendations based on shared groups between users), Friendship based (item recommendations based on social connections on the platform), User-Item Collaborative filtering (traditional model based on item similarity collaborative filtering), Homogeneous Network Embedding (model utilizing user embedding using one-hop and two-hop proximity distances). We also build a hybrid model wherein we use the top three performing models (one of which is our model) by weighting the models based on average accuracy. We find that our proposed model consistently outperforms all the other models, including the hybrid one which comes a close second.

Although we utilized data from a gaming platform, our proposed recommender system can be used by any firm with a multitude of businesses, product lines and products. Our method creates a recommender system with the notion of a lower-dimensional recommender space that captures structural and semantic network characteristics. The fact that our model outperforms all other recommender systems highlights the importance of making recommendations based on meaningful relationships amongst various nodes in network space and time.
